Add replication docs (#26)
qdrant/docs: qdrant/v0.11.0.x/distributed_deployment.md

## Replication

*Since version v0.11.0*, Qdrant allows to replicate shards between nodes in the cluster.

Shard replication increases the reliability of the cluster by keeping several copies of a shard spread among the cluster.

> This ensure the availability of the shards in case of node failures except of all replicas are lost.

Reviewer: This ensures the availability of the shards in case of node failures, except if all replicas are lost.

By default, all the shards in a cluster have a replication factor of one, meaning no additional copy is maintained.

> The replication factor of a collection can be setup at creation time.

Reviewer: ... can be configured ...

```http
PUT /collections/{collection_name}

{
    "name": "example_collection",
    vectors: {
      "size": 300,
      "distance": "Cosine"
    },
    "shard_number": 6,
    "replication_factor": 2,
}
```

```python
from qdrant_client import QdrantClient
from qdrant_client.http import models

client = QdrantClient(host="localhost", port=6333)

client.recreate_collection(
    name="{collection_name}",
    vectors_config=models.VectorParams(size=300, distance=models.Distance.COSINE),
    shard_number=6,
    replication_factor=2,
)
```

This code sample creates a collection with a total of 6 logical shards backed by a total of 12 physical shards.

> It is advised to make sure the hardware can host the additional shards before-hand.

Reviewer: ... beforehand.

  }
}
```

And a replica can be removed on a specific peer.

```http
POST /collections/{collection_name}/cluster

{
  "drop_replica": {
    "shard_id": 0,
    "peer_id": 381894127
  }
}
```

Keep in mind that a collection must contain at least one active replica of a shard.

### Error handling

Replicas can be in different state:

- Active: healthy and ready to serve traffic
- Dead: unhealthy and not ready to serve traffic
- Partial: currently under resynchronization before activation

A replica is marked as dead if it does not respond to internal healthchecks or if it fails to serve traffic.

A dead replica will not receive traffic from other peers and might require a manual intervention if it does not recover automatically.

This mechanism ensures data consistency and availability if a subset of the replicas fail during an update operation.

### Consistency guarantees

During the normal state of operation, it is possible to search and modify data from any peers in the cluster.

Before responding to the client, the peer handling the request dispatches all operations according to the current topology in order to keep the data synchronized across the cluster.

> - reads uses a partial fan-out strategy to optimize latency and availability

Reviewer: reads are using ...

- writes are executed in parallel on all active sharded replicas

Once the server responds, peers have been updated provididing a read after write consistency for sequential operations.

> However it gets more complicated for concurrent operations, especially when they are issued against different peers.

Reviewer: However, ...

> Given that qdrant does not provide transactional operations at the level of a collection, it is not possible to enforce that all peers have observed the same operations in the same order.

Reviewer: Given that, Qdrant ...

![Embeddings](/docs/concurrent-operations-replicas.png)

> For this reason it is recommended to perform write operation targeting a specific collection with overlapping keys in a sequential fashion by, for instance, using a distributed queueing mechanism as a proxy.

Reviewer: For this reason, ...

It can be configured at the collection's creation time.

```http
PUT /collections/{collection_name}

{
    "name": "example_collection",
    vectors: {
      "size": 300,
      "distance": "Cosine"
    },
    "shard_number": 6,
    "replication_factor": 2,
    "write_concern_factor": 2,
}
```

```python
from qdrant_client import QdrantClient
from qdrant_client.http import models

client = QdrantClient(host="localhost", port=6333)

client.recreate_collection(
    name="{collection_name}",
    vectors_config=models.VectorParams(size=300, distance=models.Distance.COSINE),
    shard_number=6,
    replication_factor=2,
    write_concern_factor=2,
)
```

Setting `write_concern_factor` equal to `replication_factor` ensures that all replicas are updated synchonously, provididing a read after write consistency for sequential operations.

However, it gets more complicated for concurrent operations, especially when they are issued against different peers.

Given that, Qdrant does not provide transactional operations at the level of a collection, it is not possible to enforce that all peers have observed the same operations in the same order.

> ![Embeddings](/docs/concurrent-operations-replicas.png)

Author: https://github.com/qdrant/landing_page/pull/86

from qdrant_client.http import models

client = QdrantClient(host="localhost", port=6333)

client.recreate_collection(
    name="{collection_name}",
    vectors_config=models.VectorParams(size=300, distance=models.Distance.COSINE),
    shard_number=6,
    replication_factor=2,
)
```

This code sample creates a collection with a total of 6 logical shards backed by a total of 12 physical shards.

It is advised to make sure the hardware can host the additional shards before-hand.

### Scaling replication factor

It is possible to create or delete replicas manually on an existing collection using the [Update collection cluster setup API](https://qdrant.github.io/qdrant/redoc/index.html?v=v0.11.0#tag/cluster/operation/update_collection_cluster).

A replica can be added on a specific peer by specifying the peer from which to replicate.

```http
POST /collections/{collection_name}/cluster

{
  "replicate_shard": {
    "shard_id": 0,
    "from_peer_id": 381894127,
    "to_peer_id": 467122995
  }
}
```

And a replica can be removed on a specific peer.

```http
POST /collections/{collection_name}/cluster

{
  "drop_replica": {
    "shard_id": 0,
    "peer_id": 381894127
  }
}
```

> Keep in mind that a collection must contain at least one shard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that a collection must contain at least one active replica of a shard.
```

### Consistency guarantees

During the normal state of operation, it is possible to search and modify data from any peers in the cluster.

Before responding to the client, the peer handling the request dispatches all operations according to the current topology in order to keep the data synchronized across the cluster.

- reads uses a partial fan-out strategy to optimize latency and availability
- writes are executed in parallel on all healthy sharded replicas

Once the server responds, peers have been updated provididing a read after write consistency for sequential operations.

However it gets more complicated for concurrent operations, especially when they are issued against different peers.

Given that qdrant does not provide transactional operations at the level of a collection, it is not possible to enforce that all peers have observed the same operations in the same order.

![Embeddings](/docs/concurrent-operations-replicas.png)

> For this reason it is recommended to perform write operation targetting a specific collection in a sequential fashion by for instance using a distributed queueing mechanism as a proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason it is recommended to perform write operation targeting a specific collection with overlapping keys in a sequential fashion by, for instance, using a distributed queueing mechanism as a proxy.
```
